all right let's begin hello and welcome
to the ipfs weekly call when we get to
learn about the amazing stuff that's
being built on top of IP FS today we're
going to hear from Brendan who is CEO of
Q star that's being built on top and Qri
is a peer-to-peer tool which helps
people deal and handle and share data so
Brendan I'm gonna let you take it away
amazing Thank You Portia thanks
everybody for coming out to a weekly
call yeah so as force' mentioned I work
at query and we are trying to do data
science in a new way we think that we
liked it we like to call the thing we're
building the data Bazaar which is very
similar to like the data or we use the
sort of software metaphor of like we
have the cathedral style of building
software and the bazaar so building
software versus you're like the origins
and open source cathedral style you can
think of as like many of the like
wonderful close teams that are mainly
working in a tight-knit group and then
this sort of bizarre style where it's
very much just like take any comers if
you're coming around and you want to
sort of contribute what you can do it
and so our theory of the way the world
works right now is that there actually
isn't a data of bazaar and the reason
for that is because a number of things
there's a number of underlying
technologies that are missing the ipfs
really helps provide a super solid
foundation for and so when we mean data
Bazaar we've sort of we're looking for
some very key characteristics we want to
see something where it's a two-way
conversation or anybody can sort of like
give and take whatever data they want
where that conversation is meaningful so
it's sort of structured in a way that
everybody can sort of understand what
everyone's talking about I think if
you've ever worked with github or any of
this sort of like open source
collaboration tools you have the the
feeling for what this means you you sort
of know like I'm going to create a pull
request and a pull request is a request
for someone to change the way your code
works and that code there's a process
for auditing that and then the finally
you just need this capacity to attribute
all of these changes back to the people
who made them so that as you're
collaborating you have this sort of like
audit trail this is what we get a lot
from the sort of whole world of version
control and in Suffern unfortunately
when you go from software to data things
change a lot in software is not data
they're they're not interchangeable
things and the biggest thing that
changes is volume right so if you think
about your average github repository
it's not it rarely exceeds a gigabyte of
space even with this entire history and
sort of like its whole thing unless
you're developing it Syria but that's a
whole nother conversation but the sort
of like when you move over the data
space like a gig is very normal
right and versioning is a much different
conversation when you're versioning data
because
often you're taking a single file and
you're making individual changes to a
single file so imagine your massive CSV
file with lots and lots of stuff in it
and you're just making small edits to
that you need to be able to collaborate
on it
and so if we zoom out for a second we
think about ipfs and what ipfs is a lot
of the things that ipfs does are
actually like a perfect starting point
for building a dataset version control
system which is what query is if you
think about an ipfs hash that is a bunch
of files broken up into blocks we're
specifically referring to unix FX v1
hash is a reference point for anybody
who's playing with IP LD vs. not I feel
DeLand but it's it's a file system and
under the hood it all of those files are
being broken up into blocks and so with
query we've designed something that is
intended to start from the primitive of
ipfs not that I because it's primitive
but using that as a foundation and sort
of build upwards into a system that
allows you to do convenient and
structured and reasonable and rational
versioning and so today I'd like to just
sort of give some of you on the call are
already aware with a sort of what query
is and we've we've sort of met and
chatted a bunch but we've made some
pretty major progress since the last
little while in last sort of number of
months so today I'd like to just show
you some of like what's been happening
and feel free to sort of just like put
your hand up and ask questions at any
point if you if you're sort of one stop
me and sort of see what's going on but
we'll sort of give you a high-level tour
and it for today I thought it would be
fun to prep something that is identified
that is more relevant to the sort of
ipfs community and so how many folks
have ever wondered just like how many
nodes are online and any given point yes
yes yes okay cool yeah so today let me
just sort of start with I'm gonna share
my screen I'm just gonna share my whole
desktop and hopefully my desktop is not
too muddy all right that's straight to
code land that was smart cool so here is
an answer to your question if we sort of
like zoom in on when was this Monday
June 10th so if we if we count the
unique number of peers by our there were
three thousand four hundred forty six
and then I have to move this window I'm
sorry
and there were if we look at it over the
over the last day there were six
thousand unique
seen over the last day and so what
you're looking at is a visualization of
a query data set and so this is sort of
the overview of it a set and we think
about this person looks like a github
repo but our notion of a dish that is
far more granular than a repo we have
you would have many data sets many more
than you would have repos but the thing
that's really important about query is
it's a very structured conversation so
I've just shown you a visualization oh
cool we did we did great oh yeah I have
to run this in the background Democrats
aren't being nice to me today but
actually one of this is a demonstration
of connecting to the distributed web and
at the same time it also serves up for
me a local host my dataset but if we
look at this sort of the thing that's
most important about query is like to
try and normalize this conversation
around data and the way we've done this
is we've developed a there's a document
model where everything is structured the
exact same way when we're talking about
datasets the actual contents of a
dataset so like if we think about like
the CSV file and it dataset we call that
the body and we're sort of working very
similar to the way that HTML documents
work all of our metadata is sort of
something called meta and then meta and
structure and transform sort of
collectively are referred to as the head
but this is the actual data so if at any
given point you can literally just pull
this hash off of my PFS and we'll let
this load in the background while we
sort of resolve that locally but anyways
the data itself is actually right there
and always accessible to you so at any
given point you can go to this hash last
body dot CSV and you will see this data
actually in this case I think it's a
JSON data set yeah this is in JSON so it
would be body dot JSON but we sort of
get what we need to sort of start this
data bizarre conversation I like I have
created this data set and it has in a
recurring history of changes over time
and each one of these is built exactly
the way they get is built where each
snapshot each data set is a snapshot
that refer references it's prior one so
this is the initial one and then sort of
moving up forward as we make all of
these changes and every single change is
tracked and every single change is
attributed and all of this is every
single time we're sort of writing this
down as an ipfs hash and moving that
around as we need it but we've also have
a chat see one second
ah sports let's do something live is
there live support for lighted sets as
of right now we sort of think of that as
a separate set of concerns eventually
we'll get into the sort of pub/sub EE
sort of live distribution of stuff but
there's a real sort of one of our big
primitives is we are very snapshot based
right now so the short answer is no
there's no support for anything sort of
live wise I think that's a great point
to sort of start this conversation we
have to sort of deal with a problem of
keeping this data current right and so
we kind of have two options in this very
concrete use case like what this dude
said is doing under the hood to sort of
get into the details of it is this each
data set comes with something called a
transform script and so we've embedded
of programming syntax into query called
the star-lord that looks a lot like
Python and so I can actually pull this
up in an editor so it's a little easier
to see and so you can actually write
Python code that explains to a data set
how to update itself which is a very
useful tool because we've now bound that
transformation script to the data set
itself and it moves around with the data
set so if you add this to your query
node and this moves from one peer to
another you have the majority the
details you need to recreate that data
set and you get your own Update button
to rerun this but then in this special
case we have this sort of like sticky
problem of like star lock doesn't know
anything about it so we have to like
deal with some of these sandboxing
issues and most importantly there's the
way that we're actually grabbing these
metrics is we are running a kubernetes
box in the cloud that is scraping that
kfs DHT and so there's a sort of an
intrinsic problem here where everybody
could do that but that would be if we
had like a thousand people sort of clone
that data set and and run these DHT
scrapers it's not really gonna help our
DHT stay healthy and if it is it's just
like a lot of excess requests that we're
all I mean to serve and it would
probably be smarter if we set this up
and ran it and had it sort of scheduled
to automatically update and so that's
sort of what we've built at query most
recently is where we're now we're
calling it a fog service because we
think it's it's it feels like a fog
service and so what this means is if I
do query update list and I hopefully you
can see this makes little larger and I'm
gonna wait for my could gear to figure
out okay cool how you create update list
this is a list
of datasets that are scheduled to
automatically update so I can see that
the third item here says that in 23
hours I'm going to rerun this shell
script and if we look at these shell
scripts where is that shell scripts
let's find it one second here if that's
no it can't so this is the shell scripts
under the hood and so what this is doing
is this is running on my computer and
this is something that query is
scheduled through a demonized process
registered with my operating system to
reach into my machine connect to
kubernetes over a set of secure keys
that I control and it don't have to
distribute with the data set we run a
proxy connection to a Prometheus
instance which is going to provide us
with data we're gonna wait for that
connection to sort of occur and then
we're gonna actually use we're gonna run
the transform script that depends on
that server running at night and look at
localhost 99 ingots if there's a
Prometheus instance that I can access
its running this data and that's going
to update the data set itself and that
will then publish because I've included
this publish flag this will then
automatically push that data set up to
queries cloud backup and so we run
something called a registry which keeps
all of your ipfs hashes and data sets
live on the distributed web and so every
24 hours this is gonna run and so every
24 hours we'll get new data being pushed
and so all you have to do if you want to
get this data is visit is follow this
data set which is b5 ipfs node count and
you just hit update and you're gonna get
new versions of data and the new stuff
that you need to do your analysis and so
this is what we mean by sort of a data
Bazaar you can take this data and do
whatever you want with it do whatever
you think is useful or relevant with it
but it's structured in a way such that
you have an audit trail and so you can
actually see how this is working and if
I've done my job correctly I've
annotated everything that I could've
metadata that lets you figure out what's
going on and how this is working I've
sort of included some comments and the
transform script about what sort of you
know brief oh we're running to sort of
achieve these stats and how this is
working and you can sort of decide for
yourself whether this is sort of worth
investigating I'm gonna turn to the chat
thank social okay amazing yes Jared bugs
about service but yeah we we could
totally talk about fog and mist and
other particles in water or I'm into all
of those but the point being like we
also include these visualizations just
to make everything sort of a quick and
easy and this will just update itself
over time the last thing I should note
is that maybe I can access this locally
we also make the Gateway available also
I should do that on a DAT yeah I always
get that wrong that second slash is this
really a nightmare for me 5001 pardon me
so if we actually look at that this is
the actual contents of the data set
itself and so you can actually see every
single one of these snapshots is a
individual thingy with references to
there were hashes this is how we do
comparison work yeah this is what's
going on here I should probably stop for
questions but last but not least we do
actually make we've done a bunch of work
to like make sure that we're sort of
fully interoperable with the existing
sort of ipfs ecosystem so when you're
running query Connect which is our
version of ipfs daemon you can actually
get to the web UI and this is kind of
fun that you can actually see the
version of the thing registered properly
and it's like fully there in ready to
wall we can explore our files and stuff
and so this is all thanks to the
wonderful work happening particularly
instead of going PFS to sort of make
this really easy for us to sort of bolt
in so yeah maybe I'll stop there for
questions and see what's going on to
read this chat um if you like you can
take the presentation to the end and
we'll have questions afterwards okay
cool yeah and then I guess in terms of
presentation details it's easier to talk
through some of this stuff so we've yeah
over over this sort of like courses of
getting the stuff in rolling we've been
this sort of next couple of months are
going to be an exciting time in query
we've finally passed a very important
milestone for us which is the sort of
back-end features of building and
managing a version control system are
far more fleshed out than they've ever
been
we have a lot of work to do on
documentation we have a lot of work to
do on tutorial writing and then we have
a very very
big overhaul to our user experience
front inside coming but we're very happy
was where the back ends at we now that
we have this capacity to auto update and
auto publish we think that it forms a
really exciting sort of system where
people can be designing these datasets
on their own and though they are their
own source of authority on what that
data is and are now able to publish that
sort of automatically and ideally this
is sort of helping us get around this
like the two nasty problems in data
which is auditability
and keeping for keeping things fresh and
so we think of this as like one giant
sort of like data Bazaar of stuff that
you can get access to yeah is there a
public registry of all the datasets that
people who publish and maintain there
absolutely is a public registry of all
days that's people publish it maintain
its registry query dot IO thank you for
the wonderful questions I mean and so it
is worth digging in a little bit for
this ground into what of the registry is
for us a registry is we maintain two
things there which is just we enforce
unique p r-- names there so you could
see Mike your name is b5 and C that is
actually negotiated with the registry
which is a centralized system in
relation to a decentralized system it
also handles search for us if you run
query search that's that's going to the
registry working on distributed search
but that's obviously like a a very
experimental part of the neck of the
woods
and finally what it does is the registry
we where if you sort of think about this
as a pair lentil of what github just
recently launched in terms of their repo
availability our registry is just a
backing layer for the distributed system
so all we're dealing with when the query
registry is we're just keeping hashes
available so that when you close your
laptop that hash that you published is
automatically there and so it looks a
lot more like a get get out system where
you have is sort of just hosting your
git repository this is very similar to
look where he's doing it's just hosting
the copy of your hashes query registry
has no capacity to publish anything on
your behalf all commits are signed with
a special key pair that is provisioned
according to every users query note it's
different from your IP FS PR ID mainly
so that you can have many yet profess
machines and use the same profile but is
there a concept of forking yes forking
is just like the de-facto way that
things work if you run query ad on
somebody else's data set and then you
edit that data set it Forks and so now
it's now it's just your own
and that automatically is sort of set up
for you we haven't figured out the merge
we know technically how we're gonna do
like pull requests but we haven't
actually written any of that code yet oh
the biggest thing in queer that's
different from a git repository is the
data model is set inside of a get data
instead of a query data set so you can
merge any two data sets you can compare
any two data sets at any given point
because there's no confusion about what
file is where we know exactly what each
file is supposed to do if that makes
sense and I guess in that case if I
wanted to continue like applying this
interest information again I would just
like with the same scripts as you the
one you have to I could touch the data
and I was yeah what do you like picking
the on the source and I could point yeah
I mean I can just share really quickly
we have a shortcut for that we call it
recall so I can do queries save recall
TF and that will just pull the
transformation out of my history from
one time back now if I wanted to go back
to transformations second recalled tilde
- so me get fests no camps
this would error because there isn't a
transformation two histories back if
you're thinking it's kind of a funny way
to think about your thinking across the
possible versions of it is that if I do
this this will no I can't do TF one
obviously that doesn't work alright
because my Prometheus server isn't
turned on but recall works recall is the
thing that under the hood if we do query
update run if a snowed count that will
do the exact same thing it's just that
alias for recall the last transform
scripts because it's so common to do
yeah on that note do you need custom
code how query interacts a new dataset
is a pretty auto magical yeah so the
there are two really oughta magical
parts inside of the transformations we
have something called download and
something called transform which are two
special functions that you define inside
of query and the the signature of
downloaded transform is D s and then a
context and so D s just gives you the
last version of the dataset and so you
can see how cool you know we had you
know this was the body and I can examine
that and this works really well for
appending locked so you could say hey
this my dataset had these ten entries go
to the last entry start the date stamps
from there and then the so those two
functions if you define them query calls
them for you and so those are
automatically called in the background
but if you define none of them that
nothing will happen because your
transform isn't doing anything special
if that makes sense
then it's the question and then yes
so moving on to Johnny crutches how do
you handle semantics in draw between
json-ld this is a great question Johnny
that I love digging in on so JSON our
json-ld support is planned we currently
support D cat as a raw specification and
RDF as export formats so queries query
has semantic understanding of your data
with a couple of caveats because we have
to get a little specific about what the
word semantics means if you have a
column that's level labeled population
where he doesn't know that that's a
count of people right that for that you
would mean some sort of specification
like RDF for something like json-ld
where you're actually talking
specifically about the same thing I'm
very excited at ipfs camp to sort of get
into a big conversation with the IPL
view team about graphing and linking
schemas in a way that could be
represented as json-ld but i think
that's an area of future research for us
but at a base layer what query can do
for you out of the box is it understands
what you're talking about when you say
data set so if you say combine these two
days sets it can smash all of those rows
together for you or it can smash all the
metadata together for you or you can
grab all of the titles titles of all of
your data sets
that's all doable but what we want to
get to is for query to understand that
when I say population I'm talking about
account of people and that's a big long
conversation where romantic mapping
things that humans
on two things the machines know which is
a big messy problem and then finally are
you working with governments in their
Open Data initiatives yes we work with
governments allies particularly New York
we have a lot of great very productive
conversations here with the city of New
York which has been a great partner
we're also working a bunch at the sort
of international level on the UN
sustainable development goals which is
also another source of majorly stale
data that we work on a bunch and also
through my work at the environmental
data and governance initiative we work a
lot on archiving climate data which is
also another sort of like portion sector
that tends to get stale and tends to be
difficult to sort of like keep keep your
sort of finger on the pulse of so we do
I think the people who gravities work
we're the most early have been merely in
the civic tech sector we've had a lot of
interest from that side thanks I like to
add that warms my heart that you're
working with a New York City open data
cuz I know for years they've had a
problem with like data that's old and
data that's outdated so honestly kudos
so the one fork that you're doing
no thank you yeah we're they're actually
really excited about it because there's
a real desire to make this a two-way
conversation right if we think about
data portals they're sort of this
one-way dissemination of data that is
often stale and it's very difficult for
as an individual citizen to come in and
say I would like to I want to help I
want to sort of improve your data
dictionary or I want to make some
changes to the data that I know is
incorrect and there's no method to have
that dialog right now and so a number of
places that were very excited is someone
can make an auditable upgrade right I
can take that data prove that exactly
what I changed is this stuff and only
this stuff we didn't really get into
query sniffing tools today but we have a
giant differ that allows you to do
structured data and I can sort of show
you hey this is what I want to change
and that that sets up a conversation
where a data maintainer inside of a city
who is overly burdened with their work
already in the in the sort of civic
sector is able to actually accept that
enhancement
okay that's a lot I think we covered
it's kinda went all over the place there
are there any any more questions there
are a couple I think you didn't get
answered yet and the other one here I
think about course right yeah and can I
use Qi as an API for custom data
visualizations on ipfs of the website
basically what is the course
oh yes yes totally when I make like a
fancy nodes dashboard yes you can
totally make a fancy notes password so
everything you're seeing on the front
end is leveraging a JSON API which is
available when you run for a connect so
that's locally available we don't make a
like hosted version of that available
because we really want you to use the
distribute tools but so that's totally
possible and we're
I shouldn't be talking about this yet
but we're we're inches from graph QL
sort of like looking like it's a
possibility
I can't it's gonna take us like six
months but we think that you will be
able to turn the entire query Network
into a graph QL thing which would be fun
getting to identity and management of
identity and private data sets which I
think are sort of hand-in-hand those are
this sort of like really what
constitutes our goals for the next eight
months to a year we're going to do a
very serious look at access control
including a lot of cutting-edge work
around differential privacy which will
allow certain individuals to say I would
like an anonymized version that's
dataset which to us is a very important
sort of thing to be talking about when
we're thinking about access control in
relation to data and we'd like all of
that to happen on cryptographic
primitives that are sort of based in
decentralized identifiers and so we this
is sort of taking the d ID spec layering
on an access control system that is
ideally sort of like more generic than
just dealing with query problems but
leaves us space for doing stuff like I
would like an anonymized version of this
data it's an area of major-league active
research what we have today is you
provision just a basic cryptographic key
pair that almost exactly resembles your
pure ID so you have a composite private
key pair and that's how we manage
identity on query for now that makes
sense
yeah when you read the process of
setting up a Kirino does he just run
crate set up and that provisions of to
keep errors that makes make sure you
have an IP MS repo and to make sure you
have and then it makes you a query
keeper and when you choose a peer name
we just registered the public key with
the registry and say well can you prove
this and then there's a simple proving
ceremony and then you can claim an
identifier and then we make sure you
can't claim too many in an hour that's
about it awesome thank you so much for
listening everyone does anyone have any
other questions no question is - it's
this this is a fun crowd because we sort
of know no ipfs so we can sort of talk
very very technically but then query is
very much aimed at folks who like don't
know ipfs and like you spend a lot of
time just working with data and some it
sort of can shift very quickly between
two conversations
Oh Brendan thank you so much for taking
the time out to explain or work that
queries doing all right thank you very
much for the shakes
and you'll be at ipfs camp correct I
will be at I feel a scamper I'm very
excited to share a lot of how a lot of
what I've just shown you is sort of the
guts under the hood have are some things
that we're really hoping to sort of port
back into the ipfs community and yeah
we're really looking for them many chats
that I feel that's gap just generally
accept that's awesome we can't wait to
learn more and thank you once again
thank you very much for taking a time
out to explain query and a wonderful
work that you're doing and for everyone
else for the IPS weekly meeting we are
not going to have a weekly meeting next
week in a week after because of ipfs
camp but we will continue again I
believe the beginning of July so thank
you very much I will put out an issue
about this and I will see everyone in
the future the next July thank you take
care good bye this upcoming July